In the last lecture, we learned that Agile software development is a methodology for applying that lean
mindset to software development inside a company.
So what does it look like when we actually apply it inside a development environment?
What does it look like day to day?
Let's say we work at a music streaming company and we've identified that the most important thing to
our users is to have an ability to build a playlist.
So, using the Agile development methodology, we can get everyone in a room, the engineers, the designers,
and us, the product managers, and we can decide on the very core features of building a playlist and what that entails.
So if we talk to the designers and engineers, we can be pretty certain that the most basic requirement
for building playlist functionality is going to be adding a bunch of tracks or songs to a list called a playlist.
With this knowledge, the engineers can go ahead and start developing the database that we know we'll
need to build the playlist functionality.
In the meantime, the designer and us, the product managers, can get together and start talking about how
the playlists act, and how will they look,
and how will they feel inside of the app.
So us, the product managers, and the designers can go off and wireframe some potential designs, the designers
can make them look really nice, we can test them with users and we can make changes based on user feedback.
We can do this process a couple of times while the engineers are working on the database.
By the time we've got the perfect design and look and feel ready, the engineers can put it inside of
the app because they're done with the database.
So now, with the engineers done with the backend and the database, they start implementing the actual
playlist functionality in the app. Then, the product manager and the designer can go on and start talking
to users about the next features they should build and then start doing the entire process over.
So while the engineers are actually implementing
this feature into the app,
the product manager - us - and the designers can go talk to other users and look at metrics to decide what
feature we should build next.
Then we go and do wireframes again, and design, and we get some more feedback from users, and we just complete
the cycle over again.
When companies use the Agile development methodology, usually everyone is in very close communication
and collaboration. Engineers, designers, and product managers are usually in the same room or office and
they're always talking.
Now, how about Waterfall?
When is it useful and what are some examples
of it being a useful process?
Well, think about Microsoft Windows or Mac OS X,
which are operating systems for computers.
These are operating systems that have
literally thousands of features.
It would be really, really hard to pick a couple of features
that stand on their own.
All of these features have dependencies on others and you couldn't really just release a few to the public.
Another example of Waterfall being a little bit more useful than Agile is mission critical software
applications, like braking or engine control systems in cars.
Do you think that using Agile development and developing only a few features at a time inside of a car
for the braking systems is a good idea?
Definitely not.
What about things outside of software?
Waterfall is used in other places where it's pretty useful.
Let's imagine we're building a skyscraper.
Do you think we'd want to build five floors at a time and then put a bunch of people in it and see if it still stands?
Probably not.
We're going to build all 100 floors together and we're going to do it from a spec that we know from
the beginning has everything we need.
When the Waterfall software development process is used,
the team does not collaborate quite as closely
as the team that's doing an Agile software development process.
You can have the research and product requirements team in one city, the designers in another city and
time zone, and the developers in an entirely other city and time zone.
This is because everything is defined up front and it gets passed from one team to the other and nothing changes.
So I hope everyone has a pretty decent understanding of the differences between Agile and Waterfall,
and what sorts of real world examples these are used in.
For your purposes as a product manager,
we focus mostly on Agile, but don't think that Waterfall is completely useless, because it's not.